---
isPublic: true
---

# My accountant delivers an intangible service

My account is ... my accountant! We all know what they do.

They've been my accountant for 15 years and I've been to their office twice. There's essentially no physical component to our relationship. And they're not making a _product_ that I buy. They're delivering a _service_ that I _consume_.

They live at the bottom-right of the quadrant. This is how they might use the categories from 20-39.

#### 21 Products & services

> 🟠 Lightly used.

My accountant's service is the fact that they do my bookkeeping and quarterly/annual tax returns. That's something that they've defined, and that they present to me as a service with a specific hourly rate.

They might have other services. For example, company formation is something quite specific. This is where they track those services. But it won't be as heavily used as Jeff's `21`. After all, everyone just kinda understands what an accountant does. If you were qualified you could just start _being an accountant_ without defining a product; conversely, Jeff can't just _sell a product_ without having first designed and manufactured that product.

#### 22 Suppliers & vendors

> 🟠 Lightly used.

My accountant would track suppliers of specialist accounting services and software here.

But I know they mostly use Xero and Excel so this isn't going to be a busy place.

Everything that keeps their office running is tracked up in `10-19`.

## 23 Equipment & machines

> 🔴 Not used.

Their tools are just Windows PCs. They're not specialised. They don't require any sort of maintenance or instruction above what we'd be storing in `14 Technology`.

My accountant wouldn't use this category at all.

## 24 Processes & procedures

> 🔴 Not used.

Similarly, they don't _make a thing_. There's nothing to manufacture. They wouldn't use this category.

## 25 Inventory & stock

> 🔴 Not used.

…and if you don't make a thing, you can hardly track stock levels. Unused.

## 31 Marketing, PR, & communications

> 🟢 Heavily used.

Although I think they have a pretty stable customer base, but for the sake of argument: every business needs to do some sort of marketing. Whatever they do, it goes here.

For example, they send me a quarterly newsletter. That's customer communications and it lives here.

## 32 Sales channels

> 🟠 Lightly used.

Everyone needs a way to sell a thing. My accountant uses an online service that sends me a quote at the start of the tax year. I pay the same amount each month so there are no surprises at the end of the year.

That system is a **channel** for my accountant. It's how I give them my custom. But they probably set it up years ago and don't give it much thought.

## 33 Customers & clients

> 🟢🟢 Overloaded!

I imagine my accounant has a large (electronic) file with all of my details. Records of previous returns. Billing history. Probably secret notes that they keep about what a bad customer I am.

In fact, this is probably where they do the majority of their actual work. Because if they're not working _on a customer's file_, what are they doing? So I imagine this category would be **overloaded**: that is, they'd need to design some sort of **expanded category** scheme to accommodate.

## 34 Orders & jobs

> 🟠 Lightly used.

See `32`, above. I think my accountant's incoming orders are mostly pre-configured monthly amounts. Sure, they'll reconcile them against something.

But I suspect they don't spend much time thinking about who has 'ordered' some new service.

## 35 Shipping & fulfilment

> 🔴 Not used.

Similarly, they aren't tracking the 'fulfilment' of my quarterly tax returns. That's just part of the job. There's nothing for them here.

- Note: they do send me stuff, very occasionally. But that's handled at `12.26 Keep us posted`.
