---
isPublic: true
freeform:
  - Why
  - How
  - What
  - Search
  - Always private
  - Cost
  - When
  - Also
  - Next
---

# 00.21 What is the small business system?

## Description

Why does this site exist, what does it give you, and what does it cost?

## Why

If you've ever been frustrated because you couldn't find an important file, or you've sent a client an outdated version of a file because you've saved it in multiple places, this is for you.

If you feel like you spend more time trying to manage your files than you do your business: **we made this for you**.

## How

The [Johnny.Decimal system](https://johnnydecimal.com) sets out a methodical way to structure your files, emails, notes, or anything else. Thousands of people have used it to organise their lives for over a decade. It's simple, and it works.

But you don't have time to figure out how to implement this. And why should every small business have to figure it out for themselves? That makes no sense. **Isn't it time we had a standard framework that you could all use?**

That's what we're building. A standard system that gives you a place for everything. Personally supported by us, and backed up by the community. All you have to do is move in.

## What

This website _is_ the small business system. So you can have a look around and get a feel for the structure. Most of the content is hidden like this ░░░░░ -- when you sign up, you unlock everything.

Here's a really brief tour.

#### 10-19 Company administration

The categories in this area could be the foundation of any business, regardless of the product or service you offer.

[11 The business & its people](/11) is all about the business entity and everyone who keeps it going. For example, [11.12](/11.12) is where you save your [licences, permits, & accreditations](/11.12). If you check out that ID you'll see that we explain what it's for, give some examples, and refer to other relevant IDs.

We have IDs for [business insurance and claims](/11.22), [dispute resolution](/11.33), [hiring staff](/11.41), and many more.

And you can try out [downloading a folder structure and files for your JDex](/01.03).

To explore the rest, just click around. [10-19](/10-19) is a good place to start. There's a list of all unlocked IDs at [00.00](/00.00).

## Search

Search is in demo mode. Try it out: say you're looking for the ID where you manage `payroll`. Now imagine being able to find _anything_ in your business this quickly.

And if you can't find something, just let us know on the forum or Discord. We'll point you in the right direction, and update the system to make sure you find it next time.

## Always private

_Your_ files live on _your_ computer. **We never have access to your files**. You download a complete folder structure that mirrors this site, as well as text files that you can use to set up your local [index](https://jdcm.al/11.05/).

There are many other benefits, which we'll explore on the coming pages.

> We're still building the system. Search is incomplete, and you'll notice other bugs if you go looking for them. This site is under construction, and my current focus is on building the system over making this early public-facing version bug-free.

## Cost

Lifetime membership gets you access to **everything we ever create, for all of time, for a [one-off payment of US$300](https://store.johnnydecimal.com/cart/43063017111688:1)**.<sup>1</sup>

Annual membership is for one year.<sup>2</sup> You have access to everything we do for as long as you're a member. It costs [US$150 a year](https://store.johnnydecimal.com/cart/43069054648456:1).<sup>3</sup>

These are pre-sale prices. They will increase when we launch the system. See [00.01 Sign up](/00.01) for more details.

This is what me and my partner Lucy do full-time: we quit our jobs to do this. Your membership supports two humans who hand-craft everything you see. The system is the result of thousands of hours of work.

We're not a faceless corporation. There's no lazy AI-generated slop here. No automated helpdesk. You email me, I help you.

Our plan for the next couple of years is to listen to exactly what you need, and to build it for you as quickly as possible. It'll be like having us on your staff.

> 1. Prices include GST in Australia.
> 2. Renews one year after the full system is released, not one year after your initial payment.
> 3. You'll _never_ lose access to your system. If you choose not to renew, you'll just stop getting updates.

## When

As you'll see when you're browsing the site, we're still building the system. We are targeting a first release of end-March 2025.

Me and Lucy are working on this 6 days a week. It has our complete focus.

## Also

As this is a Johnny.Decimal membership, you get **everything else** that we produce.

That's the [workshop](https://jdcm.al/14.22/), [workbook](https://jdcm.al/14.21/), and [life admin system](https://jdcm.al/14.11/). Lifetime also includes our 14-hour beginner Excel course, [Learn with Lucy](https://learnwithlucy.rocks).

## Next

Learn why you [don't need to be scared of those numbers](/00.22).
