---
isPublic: true
---

# A software developer produces an intangible thing

Xe is a software developer. They have a reputation in the industry for being a superb developer, but they prefer not to interact with people so much. So they tightly control how they work: they require a very detailed brief, then they do the work, and deliver a finished product.

There's no ongoing support component to Xe's work. They won't come to your place and show you how it works. Once they've delivered your app, that's it. Job done. That's why we're saying that there's no _delivery of service_ here: what you get is a program. They produce _a thing_.

They are at the bottom-left of the quadrant chart.

## 21 Products & services

> 🟠 Lightly used.

If we've read these stories in order, we might start to notice some patterns. It seems that most of us don't have _that_ many products & services to define.

And that makes sense in the context of this system: it's the _small business system_. Not the _giant corporation system_. If you're small it's unlikely that you have time to generate a long list of offerings.

Jeff's business is different because he's actually manufacturing the things he sells. We guess he does a big run of, say, face cream. Then that has a shelf-life of a few years. And he reconfigures his machines to make something else. So his list of products is the largest we've seen.

Xe has one service: writing apps. They charge by the week, based on their estimate, which is based on the detailed job spec they received. Not much to record here.

## 22 Suppliers & vendors

> 🔴 Not used.

Again, a pattern seems to emerge. If you sell something intangible, you _probably_ don't have that many suppliers. But again, there'll be exceptions. These stories are meant to encourage you to think about this for your own business.

Xe has no suppliers. They use open-source or off-the-shelf software that they track at [[14.32]].

## 23 Equipment & machines

> 🔴 Not used.

Similarly, Xe uses the laptop that they bought at the local Apple store. They track this at [[14.11]]. There's nothing specialised about it; it's the same machine they use to do their accounts.

## 24 Processes & procedures

> 🟢 Heavily used.

Xe's in to computers, so they've automated much of their workflow.

You don't email Xe. That's so 2019. When you want to engage them, you fill in an online form. This triggers a workflow that's documented at [[14.31]], but then Xe has a documented process that they use to analyse the job requirements and generate a quote.

If they didn't write this down, they might forget something and under-quote. Think of it like a pilot's checklist. This is why Xe is so good at their job.

## 25 Inventory & stock

> 🔴 Not used.

Another pattern: businesses dealing in intangibles can't really hold stock. Xe has nothing here.

This is like Johnny.Decimal. My Shopify store has a button that I can tick to track the stock levels of a product. But I sell PDFs or logins to this site: I can't run out of those, so there's nothing for me to track.

## 31 Marketing, PR, & communications

> 🔴 Not used.

Xe is so good, they have customers banging at the door. Not _everyone_ has to do marketing.

When I was a consultant, I never did marketing. I got jobs because Australia's IT job market is small, and I'd worked in it for two decades. (My LinkedIn account doesn't count, and we track that at [[14.53]].)

## 32 Sales channels

> 🔴 Not used.

We're using Xe to show that you don't _have to_ track stuff here.

Xe has one way to get paid: direct bank deposit, before the job starts. (We told you they were good.)

While this is _technically_ a sales channel, there's nothing to say here that we haven't already said at [[13.22]].

## 33 Customers & clients & 34 Orders & jobs

> 🟢 Heavily used.

There are two scenarios here, and they affect `33` and `34`. So let's talk about them together.

In the first scenario, Xe typically does one job per customer. The jobs are large and they completely satisfy that customer's needs. They don't need to ever come back.

In this situation, they probably prefer to manage most of this interaction in `33 Customers & clients`. Why bother going down to the level of a job -- jobs being assigned to customers -- when every customer only has one job?

The converse is that Xe has fewer clients, and they all come back for repeat business. In this situation, `34 Orders & jobs` is probably how they think about their work. Because if one customer has a bunch of jobs, you can't track them all directly under the customer. The job becomes the more important thing.

This is a typical pattern for freelancers. We can't tell you exactly how to work here: something will just feel right for you. Go with that, because it's the best way to be sure that you'll know where to find your stuff.

## 35 Shipping & fulfilment

> 🔴 Not used.

As with my accountant, there's no shipping to be done when the product is intangible.
