---
isPublic: true
freeform:
  - Jump
  - F
  - I
  - M
  - S
  - T
  - V
---

# 02.12 Definitions

## Description

Definitions of business terms that are used consistently throughout this system.

## Jump

[A](#a) [B](#b) [C](#c) [D](#d) [E](#e) [F](#f) [G](#g) [H](#h) [I](#i) [J](#j) [K](#k) [L](#l) [M](#m) [N](#n) [O](#o) [P](#p) [Q](#q) [R](#r) [S](#s) [T](#t) [U](#u) [V](#v) [W](#w) [X](#x) [Y](#y) [Z](#z)

---

## F

**Finished goods**: stuff that _you made_, that has not yet been sold to a customer.

- See also: [stock](#s).

## I

**Intangible**: something that does not have a physical form. You can't touch it.

**Inventory**: stuff that you've bought that you will use to produce one of your products. Customers don't buy your inventory; they buy the [finished goods](#f) that you produce with it.

## M

**Merchandise**: commodity items _that you purchased_, that have not yet been sold to a customer.

- See also: [finished goods](#f); [stock](#s).

## P

**Procedure**: a set of instructions for completing a specific task.

**Process**: a series of [procedures](#p) that transforms some input (e.g. [inventory](#i)) into some output (e.g. [finished goods](#f)).

## S

**Sales channel**: the methods or paths through which you sell your product or service.

**Stock**: any completed item that is available for sale. Can be made up of [finished goods](#f) and [merchandise](#m).

**Supplier**: someone who sells you the raw materials that you use in your business. The stuff you purchase from them might be tracked as [inventory](#i).

## T

**Tangible**: something that has a physical form. You can touch it.

## V

**Vendor**: someone who sells your [stock](#s) on your behalf.
