---
isPublic: true
---

# A gardener delivers a tangible service

For the sake of purity, let's say Gary the gardener just comes and cuts your grass. He's not bringing new bushes to your place so he can improve the landscaping. He's just starting out and delivers a really simple service.

Gary is at the far top-right corner of our quadrant chart. This is how he might use categories `20` through `39`.

## 21 Products & services

> 🟠 Lightly used.

His business is simple: he'll do anything for $30/hour as long as it's mowing the grass. That's his product.

## 22 Suppliers & vendors

> 🟠 Lightly used.

Gary does need to buy supplies: bags to take away the cut grass, a new mower every now and then. But it's likely he just goes to the local hardware store for this kind of thing. He probably doesn't have a deep relationship with his lawnmower supplier.

## 23 Equipment & machines

> 🟠 Lightly used.

As above, Gary does have equipment & machines, and should keep the purchase and warranty details for each of these machines here. But if he's just mowing the grass, this isn't going to be too busy.

## 24 Processes & procedures

> 🟠 Lightly used.

Gary won't have many documented procedures. Anyone can turn up and mow a lawn.

But take note: _every business should document their processes_. That's why we haven't marked this one as 🔴 not used.

## 25 Inventory & stock

> 🔴 Not used.

This is why we made it clear that Gary just cuts the grass vs. bringing over plants and shrubbery. Gary holds no inventory or stock. People whose product is pure service delivery often don't.

## 31 Marketing, PR, & communications

> 🟠 Lightly used.

You know of Gary because he put that leaflet in your letter-box last week. Pretty simple stuff, but nevertheless: marketing.

## 32 Sales channels

> 🟠 Lightly used.

Gary takes cash-in-hand. (Don't tell the tax office.) So he doesn't really have much by way of 'sales channels'.

If we think about a business that delivers a tangible service, it makes sense that it's a local, in-person kind of business. It's hard to deliver a tangible service remotely.

So it might be the case that you don't have that many sales channels. But who knows? Let us know if you find an exception.

## 33 Customers & clients

> 🟢 Heavily used.

We doubt he's keeping meticulous records, but if he did, this is where they would be. That's why we've marked this as green: everyone has customers.

At the very least we hope Gary has a spreadsheet with his customers name, address, and phone number. Then if business is a little slow he can try ringing around.

## 34 Orders & jobs

> 🟢 Heavily used.

Similarly, it'd be smart at tax-time if Gary had a nice list of all of his completed jobs and how much each one was worth. Better than trying to back-calculate from his bank statement.

## 35 Shipping & fulfilment

> 🔴 Not used.

There's nothing here for Gary. Someone asks him to come over, he turns up, and that's the job complete. 'Fulfilment' for us means processing and shipping an order; unlikely if your business is pure service delivery.

#### Jane made it big

Jane started like Gary, then she worked hard and has built a successful business. She employs six people who she sends to her customer's site. They have ride-on mowers and can provide full landscaping services, which she quotes as individual jobs. She produces 3D renderings as part of this quoting process.

Jane is still in the top-right quadrant with Gary, but she's moved towards its centre.

In `21 Products & services` Jane has a bit more going on. She might have a more comprehensive list of services. Perhaps she builds each quote from this list, pulling together some hours of basic gardening at one cost, landscaping at another, and plant supply at wholesale cost plus a markup.

Similarly at `22 Suppliers & vendors`, she might have a more formal relationship with her rural supplies store. You can't buy the equipment she uses at your local hardware shop. This equipment is recorded at `23 Equipment & machines`.

At `24 Processes & procedures` Jane should have processes that document how and how often to clean and check the equipment. A ride-on mower is a serious bit of kit. Having this stuff written down means that she can give it to the apprentice on their first day rather than spending hours explaining stuff.

For many service-orientated businesses, their processes _are_ the business. Jane can't cash out of her business if all of its workings are in her head. But write them down, and she's done the smart thing: she's made herself redundant.

Jane might offer a full landscaping service. She might keep some common plants in stock because it's cheaper to buy them (or grow them?) in bulk. She'd track them at `25 Inventory & stock`. But unless she starts to run a garden centre, this probably won't be too busy.

As a result, all of these categories have moved from 🟠 lightly used and are probably 🟢 heavily used by Jane's business.
