# 12.12 Office insurance, incidents, & claims

## Description

Policies, coverage details, incident reports, and claim forms for your business premises and contents.

## Examples

## Overview

When we say ‘office’, we mean whatever your fixed business premises means to you. Whether you have a room in your house, a commercial warehouse lease, or own a bakery, this is where the insurance for that address goes.

And if you store equipment in both a fixed and mobile location, there might be some overlap here. Just do what makes sense to you. For instance, if you’re a plumber your equipment might be insured in your home garage and also in your van. If these are separate policies then save them where relevant.

This is also a place to save incident reports that might become part of a claim. For example, something is stolen and you file a police report.

## Exceptions

If your business ‘premises’ is mobile, like a food truck, van, or trailer, put the insurance details in [[12.42]].

If you’re a market stall holder or similar, store your equipment in [[12.30]] and your public liability insurance in [[11.22]].

If you’re a digital nomad with no fixed location, you might cover your valuables under a personal travel insurance policy.

## Also see

Having an up-to-date inventory at [[12.0X]] will be helpful if you need to make a claim.

If you have separate insurance for high-value computers, devices, or accessories, you might decide to store that down in [[14.44]].

## Links

NOTES:
Comment from JN: “and what we do is create a 10.XX linking note, this includes the contents of your office as per 12.XX”.
