# 12.14 Fit-outs, renovations, & improvements

## Description

A place for larger projects that aren’t general upkeep.

## Ops manual

## Examples

- Fitting-out a hair salon with walls, flooring, cabinetry, sinks, and a kitchen area.
- Renovating a warehouse’s plumbing, ventilation, and concrete floor, and upgrading the internet connection.
- Installing custom-made, fixed benches and planter boxes at the front of a bar.
- Improvements to a workshop in a home garage that include building a new workbench and fixed shelving.
- Mood boards, measurements, and a budget spreadsheet for repainting a cafe.

## More info

This is a place to manage larger structural projects that have an end. And once done, you move into back or front office operations mode. 

As such, we recommend that any equipment ordered as part of the project be stored in those sections.

This ID might be empty for many businesses. Like us. Our office is a room in a rented house. We will never be renovating it. 

However, it will be very busy for others. The hair salon above is based on a friend who spent a hectic 6 months fitting out a new space.

## Exceptions

Daily fix-its and ongoing maintenance goes in [[12.15]].

Back or front office equipment ordered as part of a project goes in [[12.24]] or [[12.34]].

Fit-outs and renovations for mobile premises go in [[12.44]].

## Also see

## Rationale

We made a decision that these projects are about building and installing things that you can’t really take with you – they were designed for a specific location – and they’re unlikely to have an ops manual. 

Whereas back or front office equipment ordered as part of the project might have service contracts or staff training and cleaning manuals linked to them, so they belong in operations. 

For instance, the hair salon’s espresso machine in the kitchen area and massage chairs by the sinks.

## Links
## Emoji

