---
isHeader: true
emoji: ⛔
---

# 12.20 Back office equipment & operations

## Description

Anything that supports the business behind the scenes (staff only).

## Ops manual

## Examples

If you run a beauty salon, your back office might be:

- a room out the back with a desk where you manage the business, and
- a small kitchen area for staff.

If you’re a mobile personal trainer, your back office might be:

- your home office where you manage the business, and
- shelves in your garage for your equipment.

If you’re a freelance writer, your back office might be:

- your home office where you manage the business and do your work.

## More info

By ‘back office’ we mean the part of your business premises that isn’t customer facing.

It may be an actual office with paperclips and a desk. Or it could be some kind of area for staff to prepare meals, have a coffee, and relax on a break.

It’s the beating heart of the business – connecting the building to the outside world and looking after yourself/your staff during the work day.

It’s also the equipment and operational stuff that will be common to many businesses. Whereas everyone’s ‘front office’, where you interact with customers, will differ.

As always, there will be grey areas. When Lucy was a freelancer writer, as per the example above, all she had was a back office. She did not see customers at her business premises.

But if she had another (fancier) room to hold meetings in, that would have been her front office. Some businesses might be 100% front office. It all depends. ¯\_(ツ)\_/¯

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Rationale

We decided to separate back office and front office because, depending on the business, these areas might have quite different suppliers, equipment, and daily operations.

And different people might manage each area (you don’t want people trying to open the same spreadsheet at the same time).

When we were thinking about this, we often referred to the TV show, The Bear. If you haven’t seen it, it’s about a restaurant in Chicago.

The back office is run by Natalie. She’s in a room with a desk and a computer, sorting out all their administrative chaos.

The front office is run by Richie. He’s in charge of the restaurant area where the customers are and the delivery of the product.

The ‘product’ is run by Carmy. He’s in charge of the kitchen where the food is made, i.e. the product that they sell.

Some businesses are simpler than this, some might be more complicated. But hopefully this conveys the basic idea of ‘staff only’ versus ‘customer facing’ areas.

## Links
