# 12.31 Keep the basics running

## Description

Additional utility connections and services.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Utility connections and bills (electricity, gas, water, telephone, internet); any other fees related to heating or cooling (like a generator or ice); industry-specific software subscriptions; troubleshooting instructions.

## Overview

This is a place for any basic utilities and services that are _only_ in the front office.

This might be empty if your back office utilities cover both areas. But if not, keep all the account paperwork and bills here, neatly sorted by year-month.

And if you have more than one front office (maybe you have a couple of retail outlets), use per-site subfolders and keep things consistent.

Some scenarios might include:

- A hair salon has an internet connection in the back office for staff and a separate wifi account for customer use.
  - They also have a customer-management software subscription that’s only on the front office computer.
- A cafe has a food truck with gas bottles, but they don’t need gas in their back office.
- A coffee cart uses a power outlet provided by the city, which is a separate account to their back office electricity.
- A mobile beer cart has a generator to cool it’s kegs, but the brewery back office has a standard electricity connection.
- A market stall uses ice to keep its product cool on hot days, a purely front office expense.

This would also be a good place to put troubleshooting tips related to a service. For instance, under ‘internet’ save instructions for how to reset the wifi router. Under ‘gas’ save the preferred locations to swap the gas bottles.

## Exceptions

## Also see

If you do have front office software, be sure to also note it in [[14.31]] or [[14.32]] to help your IT support person.

## Rationale

## Links
