# 12.46 Public or shared transport & other ‘informal’ vehicles

## Description

All the other ways to get around, either shared with the public or that you own and maintain.

## Examples

Public transport like buses, trains, light rail, taxis, or ferries; ride sharing services; accounts to use share cars, e-scooters, or e-bikes; any other type of informal vehicle that you own.

## Overview

This is a place to manage anything to do with using public or shared transport, or owning informal vehicles.

By ‘informal’ we mean the vehicle probably doesn’t need official paperwork like registrations, inspections, or mandatory insurance. Who knows what other kinds of vehicle are part of your business. If it can be pedalled, stood on, sat on, or pulled along, put it here.

These type of vehicles may or may not have their own insurance. They might be covered under a policy for your home office or other fixed-location premises. If not, store the details here and note it in your JDex.

If you have many vehicles, store their documents in subfolders labelled with the vehicle name and/or unique identifier. And use one of the recommended date patterns to start file names so they sort neatly.

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Links

NOTES:
Use the template from the blog post here
What about permits and fees? 01? Insurance?
10 Invoices, receipts, & warranties (buying it, or supplies for it)
20 Product manuals & training (how the vendor says to use it)
30 Operations manuals (how we use it)
40 Maintenance, repair, & service (keep it in working order)
50 Vendor & supplier details (who to contact)
60 Sale, cancellation, & disposal (it went away or ended)
