# 12.45 Repairs & maintenance (formal)

## Description

A place for fixing things and taking care of your vehicles.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Quotes from mechanics and other tradespeople; research on how to repair things; annual service appointments and logs; less frequent running expenses such as new tyres and other spare parts; maintenance manuals, instructions, and checklists.

## Overview

When something that’s part of a vehicle breaks, or you’re trying to prevent it from breaking, manage it here.

This is for daily repairs and maintenance specific to the vehicle, not any equipment in or on it.

For instance, if your ice cream van’s radiator bursts, record the repair details here. But the soft serve machine’s maintenance goes in [[12.34]].

As per [[12.43]], reconcile receipts in your inbox as required and archive them neatly here.

If you have many vehicles, store their documents in subfolders labelled with the vehicle name and/or registration. And use one of the recommended date patterns to start file names so they sort neatly.

## Exceptions

Repairing and maintaining equipment that’s in/on the vehicle is part of [[12.24]] or [[12.34]].

This is not for daily running expenses, put those in [[12.43]].

## Also see

## Rationale

We made a decision to include less frequent purchases up here, such as tyres and spare parts.

They’re still running expenses, but you only buy them sporadically. And they tend to be linked directly to a repair or discovered during routine maintenance.

Here they won’t be lost among receipts for daily running expenses like fuel and other consumables. And they’ll be close to maintenance and service records, which may be relevant for warranties or future re-sale value.

But if you feel differently, do what works for you.

## Links
