# 13.21 Inbox and processing of income

## Description

Confirm you’ve been paid, tally up earnings, and file the records.

## Examples

## Overview

Think of this ID like a garden shed. It's where you can do rough work without anyone having to see it.

It contains an inbox where income records are held until you process and permanently file them in either:

- [[13.23]],
- [[13.24]],
- [[13.25]],
- [[13.26]].

And if you need to do any messy calculations as you process the income, there’s room here.

### What if I use software?

If you use point-of-sale and/or accounting software then a lot of work will be automated. However, it’s still important to cross-check that everything is as it should be and the income is in your bank account.

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Rationale

The goal of the five ‘inbox and processing’ IDs in this category is to add a little rigour to ensure you don’t miss anything. Income payments and tax deductible expenses are like treasure. And forgetting to pay other people is bad form.

We don’t want to accidentally overlook these things because we’re busy keeping our customers happy. So hopefully these ops manuals will help form good habits around cross-checking incomings and outgoings.

And if you need space to be messy and do some calculations, then we wanted to ensure there’s room for that too. For instance, every month Johnny has to download inscrutable income data from Stripe and fuss with it until it’s in a format our accountant can use. This is where he would do that work.

## Links
