# 13.35 Subscriptions, memberships, & other recurring expenses

## Description

A master list of everything you’ve signed up for so you can keep track of it.

## Examples

Software; apps; web services like hosting and domains; cloud storage; media and streaming services; food, beverage, or other office supply subscriptions; carshare or other transport subscriptions; staff memberships for gyms and clubs; recurring charity donations; crowdfunding or financial support platforms; memberships for things like online communities and newsletters; payment agreements for professional services like your accountant; plus any sort of automatic payments (i.e. direct debits) for recurring expenses.

## Overview

It’s easy to lose track of automatic payments. Especially those that renew annually. So this is a place to list them all in a JDex note, spreadsheet, or however you prefer.

This ID is not for occasional scheduled payments that you do yourself (i.e. you schedule a bill payment 3 days from now). It’s for services where you have given someone permission to take money on a recurring basis, and it might be the only way they receive payment.

Seeing it all in one place can help you know what outgoings to expect each week, month, or year. And if you want to pause or cancel anything, you’re not searching all over the place to remember what you’ve got.

## Exceptions

This is not the place to keep formal paperwork related to these services. Store that in the relevant place in the system, for example:

- a back office water cooler subscription lives in [[12.25]],
- a carshare subscription lives in [[12.46]].
- a digital music subscription lives in [[14.32]].

## Also see


## Links
