# 13.32 Accounts that handle expenses

## Description

The formal statements and paperwork for accounts or platforms that are primarily used to pay expenses.

## Examples

Online payment processors like PayPal or Payoneer; ‘buy now, pay later’ services like Afterpay or Klarna; digital wallet services like WeChat Pay or Grab; money-transfer services like Western Union; a standard bank account.

## Overview

This is a place for any accounts whose primary function is _spending_ money.

As per the note in [[13.22]], ignore this ID if it’s not relevant to you. We don’t have an account like this, but we wanted to leave room for those that do.

Perhaps you use a service like Payoneer to handle payments to international suppliers. Or maybe you buy things via a platform like Afterpay\*. Manage your relationship with those organisations here. Or maybe you have a bank account that is only for outgoings. Store those formal statements here too.

We recommend using the year-month method when saving paperwork and statements so everything sorts neatly. And subfolder by account issuer.

\*Note that if you become an Afterpay merchant one day, you could 'promote' it up to [[13.22]]).

## Exceptions

If you just use a standard bank account for both incomings and outgoings, that goes in [[13.42]].

## Also see

## Links

NOTES:
2024-12-22: we discussed whether people would want to keep proper accounts with suppliers here. I was agin it. Johnny could see some positives. The community will hopefully tell us.
