# 13.46 Intangible assets

## Description

Things you own that cannot be touched, like intellectual property, brand equity, and goodwill.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Intellectual property such as patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets; digital assets such as domain names, software, and proprietary technology; goodwill assets such as brand equity and customer loyalty; licences and permits such as taxi medallions, liquor licences, and franchises.

## Overview

This is a place to note any non-physical items you own that are involved in running the business or contribute to its future worth.

These type of assets are classified as ‘intangible’ because you can’t physically touch them.\* Depending on what they are, intangible assets might be much more valuable than any fixed or current assets.

### Saving files

This ID should contain copies of records saved elsewhere in the system. That’s okay because these are static records. We want a place where you and/or your accountant can go to see the proof of ownership and value of any intangible assets in one place.

For instance, a scientist’s R&D and patent are intangible assets. She manages these in [[20-29]]. She copies the key records here for her accountant. And she also has a master finance record in [[13.11]] that includes a summary of her intangible assets because that’s how she rolls.

\*For the pedants, in the case of, say, a licence or permit, we’re talking about the concept of the thing here, not a printout of it.

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Rationale

## Links
