# 13.44 Fixed assets

## Description

Things owned for a longer term that help you run the business, like equipment, vehicles, and property.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Land; buildings; furniture; machinery; vehicles; computer equipment.

## Overview

This is a place to note any physical items you own for a longer term that are involved in running the business. Longer term means for more than one accounting period (i.e. more than 1 year).

These type of assets are classified as ‘tangible’ because you can physically touch them. And they’re often labelled as ‘property, plant and equipment’ on balance sheets.

Selling this type of asset might be a taxable event so your accountant will want to know about it. They’ll also need to track everything for depreciation purposes. And if you need to deal with repossession of an asset, note that here too.

### Saving files

This ID should contain copies of records saved elsewhere in the system. That’s okay because these are static records. We want a place where you and/or your accountant can go to see the proof of ownership and value of any fixed assets in one place.

For instance, an electrician’s business premises, van, and computers are fixed assets. She manages the business premises in [[12.10]], the vehicle in [[12.40]], and the computers in [[14.10]]. She copies the proof of ownership, valuations, and receipts here for her accountant. And she also has a master finance record in [[13.11]] that includes a summary of her fixed assets because that’s how she rolls.

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Rationale

## Links
