# 13.43 Investments

## Description

Anything you class as an investment that you hope to receive returns from, or whose value you hope will appreciate.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Shares; managed funds; bonds; term deposits; property unrelated to the business; high-value items like art or jewellery; trusts; director’s loans (aka Division 7A in Australia); digital currency; micro-investment apps.

## Overview

This is a place to store proof of ownership documents for any investments the business may have.

For instance:

- a certificate confirming you own shares,
- a letter that confirms the conditions for a cash term deposit,
- a letter that confirms the number of units owned in a managed fund,
- a title deed for a rental property,
- a certificate of authenticity for that Caravaggio painting in the boardroom.

These are probably longer term investments. If they’re short term, your accountant might want to classify them as current assets, but that’s up to them.

Also, if you have any share trading accounts, this _might_ be a place to store any paperwork for them. Otherwise consider [[13.22]]. In Australia, this could include things like Computershare.

## Exceptions

This is not for statements of earnings – after processing the income, file those in [[13.24]].

## Also see

If you intend to sell all or part of an investment, remember to consider any tax implications such as capital gains in your budget and/or master finance record in [[13.11]].

## Rationale

### Property as an investment

To reiterate, we’re not accountants. And when we discussed property ownership, the conversation kept going around in circles.

If you own your business premises that’s a fixed asset. But a lot of us would think, “hey, isn’t that also an investment?”. And vice versa, if the business owns a rental property as an investment, that’s still a fixed asset right?

We’re not going to get involved in international balance sheet science. But we _can_ make a decision about folders.

Our recommendation is:

- If you own your business premises, the title deed lives in [[12.11]] and because it’s a fixed asset, copy it to [[13.44]].
- And if the business also owns a rental property that is _not_ where you trade, we consider that an investment. The rent is your earnings. So the title deed lives here. You could also copy it to [[13.44]] if you prefer.

If this sounds like madness, we can discuss it in the community. :-)

## Links
