# 13.62 Accounts that handle tax

## Description

The formal paperwork and statements for your official government tax ledgers.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Depending on what you do and where you trade in the world, the following may apply:

- income tax,
- sales tax,
- fringe benefits tax,
- capital gains tax,
- payroll tax,
- land tax,
- stamp duty.

## Overview

Here we are at the final stop. The big ledger in the sky.

This is the place to store all the official paperwork and statements related to government tax account/s for the business.

And any other important documents related to your quarterly or annual tax returns (including the final tax return itself). Plus any correspondence with your accountant around preparing these returns.

### Saving files

Depending on where you’re from, you might have more than one account for different types of tax. Just subfolder everything neatly using the date and account name, as per previous guidance.

## Exceptions

## Also see

If you receive a bill for taxes owed, put that in your liabilities inbox at [[13.51]], process it, then file it here.

Ditto for your accountant’s invoices for managing your affairs.

## Rationale

We recommend that all government tax records should be permanently filed here after processing. Not just income tax returns.

Whether a business is paying income, sales, fringe benefits, or payroll tax, it all goes to an account somewhere with your name on it. So we wanted to ensure there’s a resting place for all the final documents.

Having everything tax related in the one place feels helpful. You can always duplicate any records that you would like to add elsewhere in the system.

## Links

[An overview on what payroll tax is](https://www.revenue.nsw.gov.au/taxes-duties-levies-royalties/payroll-tax/getting-started/what-is-payroll-tax) from the NSW Government.
