# 14.14 Accessories

## Description

Anything related to buying, maintaining, or selling all the other hangers-on and pluggers-in.

## Examples

Printers and copiers; monitors; keyboards; mice and touchpads; styluses and pencils; cables and connectors; scanners; headphones and earbuds; watches; CD/DVD burners; landline telephones.

## Overview

This is a place to store important documents that come with the accessory, such as manuals, warranties, and duplicates of purchase and repair receipts (from [[13.33]]). And if you decide to sell anything, manage that here too.

This is also a place to keep any troubleshooting notes that you’ve written and settings/configuration you’ve applied. This comes in handy when you need to replace your accessory or set up new accessories for staff.

We recommend naming subfolders by purchase date and model.

## Exceptions

This is not for accessories related to data storage – those go in [[14.21]].

This is not for accessories related to processing payments – those go in [[12.34]].

If you pay a third party to use an accessory and they control it (e.g. a fancy photocopier with a service contract), manage that in [[12.24]] or [[12.34]].

## Also see

If you sell a high-value accessory, record the details in [[13.26]] after processing the income.

If you purchase a high-value accessory, record the details in [[13.44]] after processing the asset.

If you’re paying off an accessory, process the bills in [[13.30]] or [[13.50]].

See [[14.31]] for the overall service that an accessory contributes to (e.g. printing, scanning, photocopying).

## Links
