# 14.13 Network devices

## Description

Anything related to buying, maintaining, or selling the devices that connect you to a network or the internet.

## Examples

Modems; routers; portable wifi dongles; mesh networks; firewalls.

## Overview

These are the devices that provide your network service. You might have one device, such as a combined ADSL modem/wifi router. Or a series of devices set up in combination. They're important enough to have their own ID because without network we usually can't get anything done.

This is a place to store important documents that come with the device, such as manuals, warranties, and duplicates of purchase and repair receipts (from [[13.33]]). And if you decide to sell anything, manage that here too.

This is also a place to keep any troubleshooting notes that you’ve written and settings/configuration you’ve applied. This comes in handy when you need to replace your network device or set up new devices for staff.

We recommend naming subfolders by purchase date and model.

## Exceptions

## Also see

If you sell a high-value network device, record the details in [[13.26]] after processing the income.

If you purchase a high-value network device, record the details in [[13.44]] after processing the asset.

If you’re paying off a network device, process the bills in [[13.30]] or [[13.50]].

See [[14.31]] for the overall service that a network device contributes to (e.g. user login, internet connectivity, wifi connectivity, printing, file services).


## Links
