# 14.31 Internal software & services

## Description

Software and services that we create and/or manage.

## Ops manual

## Examples

## Overview

# What do you mean by ‘internal software’?

_Any software (fancy or low-code no-code), scripts, or automations you’ve created to help the business._

This might include things like:

- a personalised dashboard or widget,
- a script or complex formula in a spreadsheet,
- an automation in Airtable,
- a Zapier workflow,
- Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) customisations for Microsoft Office,
- or any type of in-house software you’ve developed.

This ID is a place to list anything that you have and where it lives.

# What do you mean by ‘internal service’?

_Anything you can do on a computer because there’s a combination of devices, software, and/or third-party services working together._

The base set of internal services that a business might supply to staff includes:

- user login,
- internet connectivity,
- wifi connectivity,
- printing,
- file services.

This ID is a place to describe how the internal service was set up, for the administrator. And instructions for how to connect to the internal service, for users. Which might just be you wearing two different hats.

## Exceptions

This is not for software that you’ve developed for sale – that goes in [[20-29]].

## Also see

# Rationale

# Using sub-IDs to create separate JDex notes

If you’d like more room for this information, consider using the sub-ID method to create separate JDex notes.

For example:

- ‘14.31+ Google dashboard’,
- ‘14.31+ Excel script’,
- ‘14.31+ Airtable automation’.

These notes will sort neatly under the parent ID. And they’re instantly findable by typing ‘14.31+’ in your search box.

We encourage you to use this method whenever you would like more room in your JDex. This way you won’t over-clutter the note for the parent ID.

This is one of the Decimal superpowers.

## Links
