# 14.32 External software & services

## Description

Software and services created and/or managed by a third party.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Internet service providers (ISPs); antivirus software; notes apps; accounting software; database services; software for creating graphics or editing videos; cloud storage services; virtual private network (VPN) providers; backup services; word processing or spreadsheet apps and software; task management software; domain registrars; web and email hosting; learning platforms; webinar and conferencing services; digital music subscriptions; industry-specific software.

## Overview

This is a place to record anything to do with third-party software, apps, and services for any computer or device. All the things that you have bought outright, that you might have downloaded, or that you subscribe to for ongoing access.

Most of us will just have what is known as ‘commercial off-the-shelf’ software. But if you’ve paid to have something custom-made, note that here too. And if you’ve bought things like fonts and wallpapers, or downloaded them for free, those can also live here.

As mentioned elsewhere in this category, remember to record any settings/configuration that you’ve chosen. For example, if your business uses a third-party email service, you might note certain settings you’ve turned on or off, any filtering rules applied, and standard wording required on staff signatures and out-of-office auto-replies.

And remember, we made this ID so that there is space to save things _if you need to_. If you don’t have anything to save, that’s fine. If all you have is an account login, store it securely in your password manager and note its existence in [[14.41]].

## Exceptions

This is not a place to save account logins – note their existence in [[14.41]] and store the logins securely in your password manager\*.

This is not a place to manage ‘real-world’ subscriptions and orders (e.g. fruit box, printer toner, or toilet paper deliveries) – things like that are up in [[12.20]] or [[12.30]].

\*Don’t have a password manager? Please stop reading this right now, and go and get a reputable one that you can use on all your business computers and devices. We use and recommend 1Password.

## Also see

Add any technology subscriptions from here to the master list at [[13.35]] so you can track all of your recurring outgoings.

# Rationale

This is the companion to [[14.31]], but for stuff that you don't have direct control over. Software that you _buy or use for free_ rather than develop. Services that you _consume_ rather than provide.

Note that an internal service might use an external service as one of its components. For example, our office network is an internal service. It is made possible by the devices that are stored in [[14.13]]. As well as some external services, such as the ISP, Aussie Broadband. And eero Plus, which offers extra security, among other things. We would store those here.

# Storing details about external software and services

Label subfolders with the name of the external software or service so they sort alphabetically.

Then use the numbered template provided to store specific items:

- 01 Receipts,
- 02 Downloads,
- 03 Licence keys,
- 04 Documentation, manuals, training material,
- 05 Settings/configuration,
- ...

## Links
