# 14.42 Technical cybersecurity

## Description

Defining the threats to the business and actively protecting against them.

## Ops manual

## Examples

## Overview

It’s imperative to have measures in place to protect your data and your customers’ data. There’s too many heartbreaking stories of people losing everything from scams, hackers, phishing, malware, viruses, and other threats.

So if you’ve been putting this off, it’s time to stop procrastinating – the bad guys aren’t. The good news is, there’s a lot of great information and help available now.

This is a place to keep anything related to the ‘technical’ aspects of managing your cybersecurity. What is your overall plan? Is it active now or do you need to organise some professional advice? Does your type of business have a higher risk profile than others? And what are the devices and software that you’ll rely on?

### Where do I even start?

Some initial practical steps to take might include:

- Reading as much as you can on the topic.
- Doing a trustworthy online cybersecurity health check.
- Finding online courses for you and your staff.
- Booking an in-house assessment from a reputable provider.
- Signing up for email alerts on new threats.
- Checking that antivirus and security software is up to date and always running.
- Ensuring your firewall devices and/or software are set up correctly.
- Ensuring that the operating systems on all devices are the latest version.
- Drafting policies around all this stuff to keep staff informed.

The Cyber Wardens site (link below) is a handy resource for small businesses. Even if you don’t live in Australia, it outlines the kinds of things you need to be aware of. There might be a similar initiative in your country – let us know and we’ll add it to the list.

## Exceptions

This is for your overall cybersecurity plan – the devices or software involved are managed elsewhere (e.g. a firewall lives in [[14.13]], antivirus software lives in [[14.32]]).

## Also see

[[14.43]] for the human side of things.

# Rationale

## Links

[A cybersecurity checklist](https://business.gov.au/online-and-digital/cyber-security/cyber-security-checklist) from the Australian Government.

[CyberWardens](https://cyberwardens.com.au/) – an Australian initiative to help protect small businesses from online threats.

[Advice on how to protect yourself online](https://www.cyber.gov.au/protect-yourself) from the Australian Cyber Security Centre.
