# 14.43 Behavioural cybersecurity

## Description

How the business will behave when interacting with the digital world.

## Examples

## Overview

In contrast to [[14.42]], here we’re talking about the ongoing stuff that you and your humans do. This is harder than the technical aspects – that’s set-and-forget. You must be constantly aware of the behavioural side of things.

So this is a place to plan and manage anything related to behaviours that strengthen your cybersecurity. A written policy on behaviour expectations, research you’ve done, information sheets on different topics for staff, and whatever else you need.

## Exceptions

Compliance obligations around things like privacy and data handling go in [[11.13]].

If you need to write a data retention policy, that lives in [[14.22]].

If you organise formal cybersecurity training, manage that in [[11.50]] and note who completed it in [[11.42]].

## Also see

How you respond to a cybersecurity incident should also be included in [[11.23]].

Having good policies and behaviours here will help with [[14.44]].


# Methods for manually creating a strong password

[Johnny to write]

## Links

[Advice on how to create a cybersecurity policy](https://business.gov.au/online-and-digital/cyber-security/create-a-cyber-security-policy) from the Australian Government.

[Advice on how to create a strong password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32040?hl=en#zippy=) from Google.

This festive guide by the CyberWarden initiative has [cybersecurity tips] (https://cyberwardens.com.au/cyber-security-holiday-guide-for-your-small-business/#elementor-toc__heading-anchor-0) that are relevant all year round.
