# 14.41 Accounts, passwords, & access

## Description

A record of all your logins and how you manage account access.

## Ops manual

[See notes below]

## Examples

## Overview

This is a place to list all of the types of logins you have and who has access to what. It can be handy to have a snapshot of everything, similar to the list in [[13.35]]. We also recommend keeping notes on how you deal with this stuff.

If this ID starts to get busy, consider using the extend-the-end method with the ‘+’ to nest sub-IDs under the parent ID.

# Do not store passwords here

The actual logins (i.e. usernames and passwords) should be in a reputable password manager. Or something else that’s encrypted. Never store your passwords in a plain text file. Ask us if you need help with password management.

## Exceptions

--

## Also see

Knowing how to set up and disable accounts, and who has access to what, will be handy when onboarding and offboarding staff in [[11.40]].

# Rationale

We made a decision that [[14]] feels like the most logical place to manage _all_ logins and account access. Whether they’re internal or external, or related to technology, daily operations, or anything else.

By _internal_ we mean things related to an internal service in your workplace, like logging in to your laptop or file servers. And by _external_ we mean any form of third-party website or software or app.

And an account doesn’t have to be related to technology to be in this list. A weekly fruit box delivery to the back office isn’t ‘technology’ just because it’s ordered online. Keep any details about the everyday _management_ of the fruit box delivery in [[12.25]]. The fact that you have a login is noted here with all your other accounts.

# Using IDs in your password manager

When you’re saving logins related to different parts of this system in your password manager, add the ID! Then you can search the app for the ID and a keyword.

1Password will let you do this with tags, others might as well. But adding it to the title or another field should also work.

For example, searching for:

- ‘12.25’ will show the logins in your back office related to food and beverage.
- ‘12.25 coffee’ will go straight to your coffee subscription login.
- ‘12.42’ will go straight to your vehicle insurance login, etc.

# Methods for manually creating a strong password

[Johnny to write]

## Links

An example of a password manager with a version designed for business, [1Password](https://1password.com/business-security).

NOTES:
Ops manual:
Somebody has asked for access to a system - should they have it? If so, how to do it, where do you record that they have access? Onboarding and offboarding: setting up new accounts and disabling access, disabling email account on Google Workspace console, how do you ensure that someone who left has their access taken away? And their devices returned? And their licences re-pooled? And their software deactivated?
See 14.41 text file for words we deleted for future consideration about locations of tools and things used everyday and bookmarks - it might be system-wide versus just applicable here.
