# 14.54 Electronic mailing lists & updates

## Description

The general admin related to setting up and managing electronic mailing lists and updates.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Whether you use a third-party service or manage this yourself, you might record things like:

- dates to send newsletters and other updates,
- the process for developing, reviewing, and approving content,
- where the logins are in your password manager,
- who the admins are and what permissions other users have,
- preferred templates, image sizes, and other specifications,
- links to the master creative files,
- troubleshooting tips,
- and anything else that’s important.

## Overview

Similar to [[14.53]], this is a place to store any details related to the set up and ongoing management of updates that you control. Things like email newsletters and SMS updates. It’s about the underlying _administration_ of the account and mailing list. Not what you send out.

Think about it from the perspective of a new staff member that you’ve asked to look after your mailing list and updates. What are all the little details they need to know?

We also recommend recording any configuration or behind-the-scenes settings. For example, depending on the platform, certain tracking options may be enabled by default. If you edit these, leave notes here.

If you’d like to start doing this kind of thing, it’s worth researching different platforms. Most people have heard of Mailchimp because they’ve been around for years. But a quick search shows there’s lots of options now. So have a look at the features and pricing and see which platform is right for your business.

## Exceptions

This is not where you manage your actual email account, that’s up in [[14.32]] and [[14.41]].

This is not where you create and save the content you send out, that happens in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

If you do printed mail-outs, manage the mailing lists in [[XX-XX]], and the content development in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

## Also see

Any services related to managing newsletters and updates are noted in [[14.32]].

Keep in mind any applicable privacy and data protection laws when dealing with mailing lists, as noted in [[11.13]] and [[14.22]].

# Rationale

Most businesses use a third-party platform for newsletters and updates. So that’s where your mailing list lives. Because Johnny’s a nerd, he manages email newsletters himself. He’ll _probably_ store his (encrypted) list here. But there is some overlap with customer management. In times like this we ask ourselves “where would a new staff member look for this?”. We reckon they’d try here first.

And remember, mailing lists contain personal data. So you need to be aware of applicable privacy and data protection laws (like the GDPR). Especially if you decide to switch platforms and need to export data, or if a subscriber requests a copy of their data from you.

# Linking to the master creative files for updates

We recommend that this ID includes links to the location of the master creative files for your newsletters and updates. _Because they do not live here_. For example, logos, banners, photos, videos, and words.

If these are files that you reuse over and over, there should be one copy in [[80-89]]. When you need something for a job, you go there and get it. This might include your logo, colour palette details, or product shots.

Conversely, if there are files that are specific to a particular job, they should live in that job’s folder in [[90-99]]. For example, you write the July issue of your newsletter – the drafts and approved words, plus any images, live in that job’s folder.

## Order and calm

Our goal for the two creative categories is that they’re orderly, calm places. The type of files and projects that go here are often littered throughout your entire system. And so much time is wasted clicking around trying to find them.

“When did I last use the logo?”. “Is this the hi-res version?”. “Where’s the final PDF of the new menu design?”.

We need to get out of the habit of having 50 copies of our important creative assets, with different names, in multiple locations. And into the habit of having a neat set of folders containing a master copy of everything. As well as a separate place to work on new projects that doesn’t clutter where we do our daily business admin.

We discuss this in more detail in the creative categories.

## Links

The GDPR is the [EU’s data protection law](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/) – if you hold data from EU citizens, then you’ll need to read up on this.

A genuine endorsement – if you’re looking to set up a newsletter for your business, check out [Buttondown](https://buttondown.com/), a nice service run by nice humans.
