# 14.52 Websites, blogs, & communities

## Description

The general admin related to setting up and managing websites, blogs, and communities.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Whether you set up your site with a third-party service, hired a web designer, or coded it yourself, you might record things like:

- how it’s built,
- where it’s hosted,
- how to update it,
- where the logins are in your password manager,
- where the code is (if you wrote it),
- links to the master creative files,
- and anything else that’s important.

## Overview

This is a place to store any details related to the set up and ongoing management of websites that you control. It’s about the underlying _administration_ of a website. Not what’s on it.

Think about it from the perspective of a new staff member that you’ve asked to look after your website. What are all the little details they need to know?

We also recommend recording any configuration or behind-the-scenes settings. For example, if you’re connecting a domain from a third-party registry on Squarespace, you’ll need to type in the DNS details. Help your future self by noting what you did.

This includes _blogs and communities_. But for simplicity, we’ve focused on websites here. If you do manage a blog or community, just follow the same advice.

## Exceptions

This is not where you create and save the content that you publish on a website, that happens in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

## Also see

Any services related to building or hosting a website, blog, or community are noted in [[14.32]] (e.g. things like Squarespace, Netlify, WordPress, Discourse, Discord).

# Rationale

# Linking to the master creative files for websites

We recommend that this ID includes links to the location of the master creative files for your website. _Because they do not live here_. For example, logos, banners, photos, videos, and final approved wording.

If these are files that you reuse over and over, there should be one copy in [[80-89]]. When you need something for a job, you go there and get it. This might include your logo, colour palette details, product images, or staff photos and bios.

Conversely, if there are files that are specific to a particular job, they should live in that job’s folder in [[90-99]]. For example, you make a new product video for the site – the script, raw footage, and final export live in that job’s folder. Or you decide to update the wording on one of the pages – the approved words are stored in that job’s folder.

## Order and calm

Our goal for the two creative categories is that they’re orderly, calm places. The type of files and projects that go here are often littered throughout your entire system. And so much time is wasted clicking around trying to find them.

“When did I last use the logo?”. “Is this the hi-res version?”. “Where’s the final PDF of the new menu design?”.

We need to get out of the habit of having 50 copies of our important creative assets, with different names, in multiple locations. And into the habit of having a neat set of folders containing a master copy of everything. As well as a separate place to work on new projects that doesn’t clutter where we do our daily business admin.

We discuss this in more detail in the creative categories.

## Links
