# 14.53 Social media

## Description

The general admin related to setting up and managing social media accounts.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Whether you have one account, or multiple, you might record things like:

- the handles,
- if it’s a business account (e.g. Instagram for Business),
- where the logins are in your password manager,
- if two-factor authentication is turned on (it should be),
- who the admins are,
- how to update the profile and post different types of media,
- if there’s an associated account like Linktree or Canva,
- image sizes and character limits by platform,
- links to the master creative files,
- how to set up your AV equipment for a video shoot,
- and anything else that’s important.

## Overview

Similar to [[14.52]], this is a place to store any details related to the set up and ongoing management of social media accounts that you control. It’s about the underlying _administration_ of a social media account. Not what’s on it.

Think about it from the perspective of a new staff member that you’ve asked to look after your social media. What are all the little details they need to know?

We also recommend recording any configuration or behind-the-scenes settings. Especially stuff related to privacy and security, commenting, and direct messaging. We’re not social media experts.\* But we’ve noticed that there’s _a lot_ of settings these days, so keep an eye on them.

If you decide to close an account and download your data, you could store that here too.

\*If you _are_ an expert, it would be great to see you in this community thread.

## Exceptions

This is not where you create and save the content that you post on social media, that happens in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

## Also see

Any services related to using a social media account are noted in [[14.32]] (e.g. things like Linktree or Canva).

# Rationale

By social media, we mean any third-party platform where you can post and publish words, images, or video, that _isn’t_ your own website, blog, community, or newsletter. And that people can interact with in some way. For simplicity, we recommend that it sits under one umbrella here.

# Storing details for multiple social media accounts

To avoid cluttering this JDex note, we recommend using the extend-the-end method to create sub-IDs under this parent ID. For example:

- ‘14.53+ Instagram’,
- ‘14.53+ LinkedIn’,
- ‘14.53+ YouTube’,

And to neatly store files in your file system, create one subfolder per platform so they sort alphabetically. Then use the year-month method to name files so they sort by date.

# Linking to the master creative files for social media

We recommend that this ID includes links to the location of the master creative files for your social media accounts. _Because they do not live here_. For example, logos, banners, photos, videos, and approved profile pics and wording.

If these are files that you reuse over and over, there should be one copy in [[80-89]]. When you need something for a job, you go there and get it. This might include your logo or profile pic, colour palette details, or product shots.

Conversely, if there are files that are specific to a particular job, they should live in that job’s folder in [[90-99]]. For example, you make a new product video for reels – the raw footage, hashtags, and approved post wording live in that job’s folder.

## Order and calm

Our goal for the two creative categories is that they’re orderly, calm places. The type of files and projects that go here are often littered throughout your entire system. And so much time is wasted clicking around trying to find them.

“When did I last use the logo?”. “Is this the hi-res version?”. “Where’s the final PDF of the new menu design?”.

We need to get out of the habit of having 50 copies of our important creative assets, with different names, in multiple locations. And into the habit of having a neat set of folders containing a master copy of everything. As well as a separate place to work on new projects that doesn’t clutter where we do our daily business admin.

We discuss this in more detail in the creative categories.

## Links

Tips on [claiming social media handles](https://www.godaddy.com/resources/skills/how-to-claim-social-media-handles-and-why-you-should-do-it-now) from GoDaddy.

NOTES:
Template/subfolder recommendation for if you have several accounts
