# 15.90 ■ Travel, events, & social library 📚

## Description

A place to put information that’s related to this category, kinda interesting, mostly unimportant, and definitely doesn’t fit elsewhere.

## Examples

## Overview

Caution. This is a place for when there is no other place. Don’t get lazy and dump stuff here that is important and/or has a home elsewhere in the system.

This might be information that you found interesting or might be useful someday. But right now, it’s not strongly related to any other ID. And it would not make sense to clutter an existing ID or create a new one for it.

It’s a library so we want to keep it neat. Label any files with clear descriptions and use the year-month method in case the information is time sensitive.

## Exceptions

## Also see

# Rationale

We wanted to be realistic and acknowledge that sometimes there is miscellanea that accumulates over time. It could be anything – a document, photo, URL, email, note, or a physical item. But it’s not the _work_ that you do. It’s things that you’ve found online or in real life, or perhaps that you’ve created.

It doesn’t fit anywhere else. It’s just a thing you wanted to save. And you don’t want it muddying other folders where work happens. Importantly, it’s not that important. It has nothing to do with business operations. If it wasn’t backed up it wouldn’t matter. If you lose it, you could probably download it again.


## Links

# Description

## Examples

## Overview

## Exceptions

## Also see


## Links

## Emoji

NOTES:
Remember to add an insurance ID in the same pattern as other categories
e.g. product liability insurance, what else?
Also referred to as ‘goods and services’ in accounting, should we do the same?
A good link about IP: https://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/news-and-community/news/Intellectual-property-rights-at-a-glance-basics-for-Australian-businesses
Customer management: remember to have a knowledge base, and how do we capture feedback and complaints etc - a third-party zen desk thing? Phone calls? Verbal at your shop? (this came from a note in 14 technology min map: External support request management, e.g. what happens when a customer writes about an issue? We have a customer service policy higher up, but the details are in customer management, we think)