# 11.13 Compliance

## Description

Any laws, codes, or standards relevant to your business, including inspections and audits that may be required.

## Examples

Workplace health and safety compliance; environmental laws; industry manufacturing standards; payroll governance; building standards and safety inspections; retail fair trading laws; codes of conduct for advertising and marketing; food safety inspections; financial audits; local and international import/export regulations; laws around the supply of alcohol; employment and unfair dismissal laws; privacy and data protection laws.

## Overview

You have a registered business and the legal permission to provide a product or service. Now you must adhere to the regulatory environment that you are trading in. Again, this will depend entirely on what you do. There may be many different local, state, national, or international laws or requirements to be aware of.

Compliance might mean that:

- Your business must obey certain laws, regulations, or codes of practice.
- Your business must undergo one-off or ongoing inspections or audits.
- You and your staff must do ongoing training.
- The products you sell or manufacture must meet certain standards.

Either way, store copies of regulations and proof that you’re complying with them here. This is an important ID to keep up-to-date in your JDex and to set reminders for so you stay above board.

## Exceptions

## Also see

Manage ongoing training or education in [[11.50]], but store a copy of the proof of completion here if it helps you meet compliance obligations.

## Further reading

## Ops manual

## Links

## Emoji

NOTES:
JDex: importance level high
Ops manual: recurring compliance obligations

