# 14.11 Computers & servers

## Description

Anything related to buying, maintaining, or selling a computer.

## Examples

Laptops; desktop computers, including things like Mac minis; physical servers; anything else classified as a computer, such as a Raspberry Pi.

## Overview

These are all the things that you typically connect a keyboard, mouse, and monitor to. That you do your work on, or that do work for you in the background. Note that computers and servers are both computers. A server is just a computer that you've assigned a special role.

This is a place to store important documents that come with the computer, such as manuals, warranties, and duplicates of purchase and repair receipts (from [[13.33]]). If you lease your computers, keep the overarching contracts and agreements here. And if you decide to sell anything, manage that here too.

This is also a place to keep any troubleshooting notes that you’ve written and settings/configuration you’ve applied. This comes in handy when you need to replace your computer or set up new computers for staff.

We recommend naming subfolders by purchase date and model.

## Exceptions

This is for physical computers that you control. If you pay for space on a virtual private server or offsite ‘dedicated hosting service’ in a data centre, those go in [[14.32]].

## Also see

If you sell a computer, record the details in [[13.26]] after processing the income.

If you purchase a computer, record the details in [[13.44]] after processing the asset.

If you’re paying off or leasing a computer, process the bills in [[13.30]] or [[13.50]].

## Further reading

