# 14.12 Mobile devices

## Description

Anything related to buying, maintaining, or selling a smaller, handheld device.

## Examples

Phones; tablets; e-readers.

## Overview

This is basically the same as [[14.11]], but for smaller devices like phones and tablets. These are really just computers, but we tend to think of them differently. So it felt logical to split them out.

Plus there are things that set them apart from regular computers. For instance, we tend to replace them more often, they’re more likely to be on some sort of payment plan, and we’re more likely to drop or lose them! Mobile devices also have a different security profile because they’re carried around in public, which is something to consider in [[14.40]].

This is a place to store important documents that come with the device, such as manuals, warranties, and duplicates of purchase and repair receipts (from [[13.33]]). And if you decide to sell anything, manage that here too.

This is also a place to keep any troubleshooting notes that you’ve written and settings/configuration you’ve applied. This comes in handy when you need to replace your mobile device or set up new devices for staff.

We recommend naming subfolders by purchase date and model.

## Exceptions

This is not for overarching mobile phone contracts or payment plan agreements, store those in operations at [[12.21]] or [[12.31]].

This is not for mobile phone bills or ‘pay as you go’ fees:

- process the payments in [[13.30]] or [[13.50]],
- and if you like, store copies of the bills in operations at [[12.21]] or [[12.31]].

## Also see

If you sell a high-value mobile device, record the details in [[13.26]] after processing the income.

If you purchase a high-value mobile device, record the details in [[13.44]] after processing the asset.

## Further reading

