# 14.21 Storage

## Description

The physical devices and cloud services that store your data.

## Examples

Physical storage devices like hard drives and USB sticks; cloud storage services
like Dropbox, iCloud, Google Drive, Amazon Web Services, or OneDrive/SharePoint.

## Overview

This is the _places a thing can be_. Probably where you have your classic file structure. In the old days, this might have been some mapped drives on the company network (e.g. G: and J:). But now we commonly use separate storage devices, as well as storage services.

This ID is where to save important documents that come with a physical storage device, such as manuals, warranties, and duplicates of purchase and repair receipts (from [[13.33]]). And if you use cloud services, include the account details here (not the passwords though, those go in your password manager!).

This is also a place to keep any troubleshooting notes that you’ve written and settings/configuration you’ve applied.

We recommend naming subfolders by purchase date and model.

## Exceptions

This is for devices and services that you save data to and that you (mostly) control. Third-party software and applications that perform a task _and_ contain data are noted in [[14.22]].

## Also see

If you sell a high-value storage device, record the details in [[13.26]] after processing the income.

If you purchase a high-value storage device, record the details in [[13.44]] after processing the asset.

If you’re paying off a storage device, process the bills in [[13.30]] or [[13.50]].

See [[14.31]] for the overall service that a storage device contributes to (e.g. file services, backups and recovery).

## Further reading

