# 14.43 Behavioural cybersecurity

## Description

How the business will behave when interacting with the digital world.

## Ops manual

## Examples

A cybersecurity policy might address behaviours around things like:

- passwords, passphrases, and multi-factor authentication,
- threat awareness when using email, websites, and search engines,
- threat awareness when answering phone calls,
- what is ‘acceptable use’ of the business’ network, computers, and devices,
- use of personal devices for business purposes,
- working from home,
- network protection,
- keeping operating systems, and antivirus and other software up-to-date,
- responsible data handling,
- use of storage devices,
- and how to report a threat, or get help if a security event occurs.

## Overview

In contrast to [[14.42]], here we’re talking about the ongoing stuff that you and your humans do. This is harder than the technical aspects – that’s set-and-forget. You must be constantly aware of the behavioural side of things.

So this is a place to plan and manage anything related to behaviours that strengthen your cybersecurity. A written policy on behaviour expectations, research you’ve done, information sheets on different topics for staff, whatever you need.

### How do you and your staff behave online?

How do you treat email? Do you understand phishing attacks? Do you know not to post sensitive stuff on social media? Are you aware that websites in search engine results can be fake? What happens if someone gets an email that begins “Dear beloved friend, I am a deposed prince that needs help with a cash transfer...”?

This also includes texts and phone calls. We’ve all received ‘urgent’ unsolicited texts and calls trying to lure us into clicking a link or handing over money. These people (and their bots) are ruthless. And they’re especially dangerous when they impersonate banks, utilities, or government services that we all use and trust. Your antivirus software can’t help if you give someone your bank details over the phone.

### Where do I even start?

Have a search for cybersecurity and phishing awareness training, there’s lots of options these days. Sign up to some mailing lists. Learn what the new hacks and scams are. Stay vigilant because threats can come from anywhere.

### What makes a good password?

There’s plenty of advice online about creating strong passwords. But we’d recommend deferring to your trusty password manager to generate them for you.

There are times when _you_ might need to create a strong, memorable password. For example, the password that unlocks your password manager. You can’t store this in the app, it has to live in your head. **Never ever write that password down.** We will disown you.

We also recommend having a _verbal_ password that you and your staff can use on the phone to verify your identities. We read an article about a scam where people impersonate business owners, hence the warning.

It goes like this. A business owner went overseas to a conference. They mentioned specific details in their out-of-office message. A scammer got the message, called the office, and pretended to be the boss. “Hey, Paris is great, quick favour, my card failed, can you transfer $$$ to this other account, thanks, gotta run!”. This is where you say, “sure, what’s the password?” and they hang up.

## Exceptions

Compliance obligations around things like privacy and data handling go in [[11.13]].

If you need to write a data retention policy, that lives in [[14.22]].

## Also see

How you respond to a cybersecurity incident should be included in [[11.23]].

If you organise formal cybersecurity training, manage that in [[11.50]] and, if relevant, note who completed it in [[11.42]].

Having good policies and behaviours here will help with [[14.44]].

