# 14.44 Cyber insurance, incidents, & claims

## Description

Policies, coverage details, incident reports, and claim forms for your digital world.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Depending on the policy, cyber insurance may cover costs related to:

- extortion or ransomware,
- data breaches and security,
- loss or release of customer data,
- interruptions to business operations caused by a cyber event,
- recovery of lost business data,
- being sued by a third party for damages caused by a cyber event.

## Overview

This is a place for insurance that covers the business interacting with the digital world. Anything related to being on a computer, including hacks, scams, phishing, data leaks, viruses and malware, or ransomware attacks.

It’s likely you’ll find it easier to obtain cyber insurance (and make a claim) if you can show that you have implemented a cybersecurity plan and have proper password management.

If you have specific theft or damage insurance for high-value computers, devices, or accessories consider storing that here too. Otherwise, that would go in [[12.12]].

And if your business sells a technology product or provides technology services, then you might also have ‘technology errors and omissions’ (E&O) insurance. This protects against an incident that affects customers because of an error in your product or service. Consider storing that here too. Otherwise, that would go in [[11.22]].

This is also where to store incident reports that might become part of a claim.

## Exceptions

## Also see

