# 14.54 Electronic mailing lists & updates

## Description

The general admin related to setting up and managing electronic mailing lists and updates.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Whether you use a third-party service or manage this yourself, you might record things like:

- dates to send newsletters and other updates,
- the process for developing, reviewing, and approving content,
- where the logins are in your password manager,
- who the admins are and what permissions other users have,
- preferred templates, image sizes, and other specifications,
- links to the master creative files,
- troubleshooting tips,
- and anything else that’s important.

## Overview

Similar to [[14.53]], this is a place to store any details related to the set up and ongoing management of updates that you control. Things like email newsletters and SMS updates. It’s about the underlying _administration_ of the account and mailing list. Not what you send out.

Think about it from the perspective of a new staff member that you’ve asked to look after your mailing list and updates. What are all the little details they need to know?

We also recommend recording any configuration or behind-the-scenes settings. For example, depending on the platform, certain tracking options may be enabled by default. If you edit these, leave notes here.

If you’d like to start doing this kind of thing, it’s worth researching different platforms. Most people have heard of Mailchimp because they’ve been around for years. But a quick search shows there’s lots of options now. So have a look at the features and pricing and see which platform is right for your business.

## Exceptions

This is not where you manage your actual email account, that’s up in [[14.32]] and [[14.41]].

This is not where you create and save the content you send out, that happens in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

If you do printed mail-outs, manage the mailing lists in [[XX-XX]], and the content development in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

## Also see

Any services related to managing newsletters and updates are noted in [[14.32]].

Keep in mind any applicable privacy and data protection laws when dealing with mailing lists, as noted in [[11.13]] and [[14.22]].

