# 14.53 Social media

## Description

The general admin related to setting up and managing social media accounts.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Whether you have one account, or multiple, you might record things like:

- the handles,
- if it’s a business account (e.g. Instagram for Business),
- where the logins are in your password manager,
- if two-factor authentication is turned on (it should be),
- who the admins are,
- how to update the profile and post different types of media,
- if there’s an associated account like Linktree or Canva,
- image sizes and character limits by platform,
- links to the master creative files,
- how to set up your AV equipment for a video shoot,
- and anything else that’s important.

## Overview

Similar to [[14.52]], this is a place to store any details related to the set up and ongoing management of social media accounts that you control. It’s about the underlying _administration_ of a social media account. Not what’s on it.

Think about it from the perspective of a new staff member that you’ve asked to look after your social media. What are all the little details they need to know?

We also recommend recording any configuration or behind-the-scenes settings. Especially stuff related to privacy and security, commenting, and direct messaging. We’re not social media experts.\* But we’ve noticed that there’s _a lot_ of settings these days, so keep an eye on them.

If you decide to close an account and download your data, you could store that here too.

\*If you _are_ an expert, it would be great to see you in this community thread.

## Exceptions

This is not where you create and save the content that you post on social media, that happens in [[80-89]] and [[90-99]].

## Also see

Any services related to using a social media account are noted in [[14.32]] (e.g. things like Linktree or Canva).

