# 11.45 Animals as staff

## Description

For all (working) creatures, great and small.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Dogs or horses that work in tourism or muster livestock; birds who help with biological pest control; dogs trained for a service such as companionship or search and rescue; truffle pigs or dogs.

## Overview

We’re not experts so it’s hard to predict what subfolders you might need. It will depend on the animals you have, what they do, and where you live.

Some basic things to consider include:

- Health records, registrations, and other important documents.
- Insurance and claims.
- Nutrition and exercise.
- Pest control and grooming.
- Training and discipline.
- Equipment and shelter.
- First aid and contacts for general healthcare and medical emergencies.

If this is integral to your business and you need more room, feel free to use the spare IDs in this section. We’d love it if you chat to us first on the Discord so we can help you get the best result (which will help other people who need this).

## Exceptions

If you’re a farmer and sell livestock or other animal products such as wool, milk, eggs, or genetic material for breeding, then how you manage all of that should be in [[20-29]] or another area that you create yourself (or we can help!).

## Also see

## Rationale

This ID was included to accommodate animals in exactly the same way as humans – in the delivery of a business’ product or service. But we appreciate that there’ll be some grey areas here depending on what you do. And we don’t want things to get confusing.

For instance, if you run a sheep property or dairy farm and sell the wool/milk, it would probably be impractical to classify these animals as staff.

But if you run, say, a Hansom cab or sled dog tourism business, you might classify the horses and dogs as staff and manage them here. The thing you’re selling is the experience of riding around New York’s Central Park or a snowscape in northern Canada, which is managed elsewhere. As always, do what works for you.

If you need this ID, you know who you are. If you don’t, it’s highly unlikely you ever will, so just ignore it.

## Links

## Emoji
