# 11.53 Other learning & self-improvement

## Description

A place to record any other general learning that doesn’t fit elsewhere.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Materials you collect at industry conferences; notes in your JDex from YouTube software tutorials; a list of business-related books you plan to read; presentations from webinars or Meetups you attended; paid media subscriptions like specialty podcasts, blogs, newsletters, journals, periodicals, and magazines.

## Overview

A place for anything you might classify as learning or self-improvement that doesn’t fit elsewhere.

It’s not related to your business operating legally and/or doesn’t lead to a formal credential. You don’t have to do it, it’s extracurricular. But it might help you be a better business owner or staff member.

For instance, informal courses, conferences or workshops, coaching programs, webinars, talks, or general reading and media consumption that keeps you informed.

As an aside, we know some businesses that include budgets for this kind of thing in salary packages. Staff can then spend this on whatever learning they choose. Nice.

**Nerd tip:** this may sound obvious but we only just did it ourselves. Go to your government’s small business and/or tax website and see if they have newsletters. Sign up! We’ve subscribed to about ten different newsletters and so far they’re _full_ of useful stuff.

## Exceptions

## Also see

## Rationale

## Links

[Free self-paced courses for small business](https://smallbusiness.taxsuperandyou.gov.au/) from the Australian Taxation Office.

## Emoji
