# 12.41 Official documents (formal)

## Description

The important documents associated with owning, leasing, or selling a vehicle.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Proof of ownership; government registrations and taxes; financing, leases; hire-purchase agreements; log books.

## Overview

This isn’t limited to things like cars, vans, and trucks.

A farm might have motorbikes, tractors, and a harvester. A fishing business will have boats. A flight training school will have a plane or a helicopter. A tree surgeon will have a cherry picker.

We know someone whose agricultural business uses drones that must be registered with the Civil Aviation Safety Authority.

Then there’s things that can be towed and require a registration to travel on roads. Such as trailers used by gardeners, and converted caravans for food or coffee service.

And of course there’ll be grey areas. Maybe you have a hot air balloon business. Not a traditional motor vehicle, but they need to be certified and transported on a registered trailer. So they go here.

What if you have an unregistered tractor that never leaves your farm? You’ll have proof of ownership documents and you might register it _someday_. So it goes here.

Here’s another niche, but relevant, example. What if you run a Hansom cab (horse and carriage) business? The carriage isn’t a traditional motor vehicle. But it carries passengers, often in busy cities.

You’ll no doubt have registrations, inspections, and other paperwork for this vehicle. So it goes here. And your horses fit nicely in [[11.45]].

If you have many vehicles, store their documents in subfolders labelled with the vehicle name and/or registration. And use one of the recommended date patterns to start file names so they sort neatly.

This can also include the future, so store your new vehicle searches here too.

## Exceptions

This does not include renting a car as part of a business trip. Store that with the trip down in [[15.XX]].

## Also see

## Rationale

When we say ‘formal vehicle’, ‘motor vehicle’, or ‘registered vehicle’, it doesn’t matter if it’s a car, trailer, boat, seaplane, caravan, hot-air balloon, or Hansom cab.

If it’s core to your business and requires some kind of official paperwork, put it up here.

As always, if you disagree with our rationale then do what works for you and note what you did in your JDex.

## Links
