# 12.42 Vehicle insurance, incidents, & claims (formal)

## Description

Policies, coverage details, incident reports, and claim forms for your vehicles.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Comprehensive car or motorcycle insurance; third party car or motorcycle insurance; caravan insurance; trailer insurance; boat insurance; any other form of commercial vehicle insurance.

## Overview

Again, when we say ‘vehicle’ this will mean different things to different businesses. But we needed a catch-all label here.

It could be a car, boat, or rickshaw. But if it’s covered under a vehicle insurance policy, put it here. Contrast with a bicycle or e-scooter, which might be covered as a mobile item under your office/home contents policy.

As noted at [[12.12]], if you store equipment in both a fixed location and a vehicle, there might be some overlap here. Just do what makes sense to you. For instance, if you’re a plumber your equipment might be insured in your home garage and also in your van. If these are separate policies then save them where relevant.

We’ve noted in our research that insurance companies often have commercial policies that are specifically designed for business owners. So it might pay to look around to see what’s right for you.

If you have many vehicles, store their documents in subfolders labelled with the vehicle name and/or registration. And use one of the recommended date patterns to start file names so they sort neatly.

Some of these insurances may be required by law. For instance, in Australia third party personal injury insurance is compulsory for business vehicles.

This is also a place to save incident reports that might become part of a claim. For example, something is stolen and you file a police report.

## Exceptions

## Also see

Having an up-to-date inventory at [[XX.XX]] will be helpful if you need to make a claim.

## Rationale

As mentioned previously, we recommend that insurance details should live next to the thing that is being insured. This will help your brain find things, and ensure other relevant information is nearby if you’re dealing with a claim or policy renewal.

## Links
