# 13.11 Financial planning

## Description

Calculations, budgets, goals, and strategies to help you know where you stand.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Things you might research and plan here include:

- calculating if the business is viable,
- start-up and ongoing operating budgets,
- what taxes may apply to you (e.g. income, sales, fringe benefits, capital gains, payroll, land, stamp duty),
- your financial goals and strategies to reach them,
- whether you’ll use accounting, time-tracking, or payroll software, or other digital tools,
- will you rely on your bookkeeper or accountant or do as much as you can yourself,
- what kind of bank account/s you’ll need,
- if relevant, how will you deal with cash (e.g. currency conversions, cash floats, petty cash, cash books),
- whether you need help protecting your profits (e.g. diversifying investments to reduce risk),
- or whatever else you need to figure out.

## Overview

Whether you’ve received professional financial advice or you’re figuring things out yourself, this is a place to do the work.

This ID will probably end up full of notes, calculations, or spreadsheets. Whatever you do here, we recommend subfolder-ing things by year to keep it neat and relevant to each accounting period.

### Even a little planning helps

You might be fancy and have software doing all sorts of analyses for you. But a lot of us with simple businesses can rest easier with even a little due diligence.

For instance, as a sole trader for many years Lucy didn’t do that much financial planning. But she always had an up-to-date spreadsheet covering things like:

- expected business and living expenses,
- mandatory tax obligations like sales and income taxes,
- voluntary pension contributions,
- income thresholds that would affect the entity\*,
- and other more aspirational buckets for savings and fun stuff.

Most important for Lucy was maintaining a cashflow ‘safety net’ so she could operate while waiting for people to pay her. Hers covered about 6 months worth of living expenses.

Everyone’s safety net will be different. But Lucy learned quickly that having no safety net is stressful because nobody pays your invoice on the day you send it. And the bigger the company, the slower the payroll department. So that might be another thing to consider here.

\*Such as ‘the 80/20 PSI rule’ and GST threshold in Australia.

## Exceptions

This isn’t for costing out how much you charge for your product or service, that goes in [[20-29]].

## Also see

When you’re writing or updating [[11.21]], do the money calculations here.

## Rationale

We reckon it’s worthwhile to look under every rock and not be afraid of what you might find. Especially when you’re starting out and need to ensure your business is financially viable. If it’s not, it’s a hobby. And that’s not why we’re here.

For instance, how many customers does a burger truck need every hour to be profitable? When we see local businesses failing, we often worry that too many people aren’t working this out truthfully before they fully commit to an idea.

If you know what you need to spend each month to meet obligations and then make a profit, you know what you need to earn. Even if you’re a not-for-profit, you’ve still got obligations.

After some initial busywork and tedium, you’ll hopefully feel more informed, calm, and in control. Which is the goal of this ID.

## Links

[Tips for good small business habits](https://www.ato.gov.au/businesses-and-organisations/starting-registering-or-closing-a-business/starting-your-own-business/small-business-habits#atid=e821a9acaa940339) from the Australian Taxation Office.

[Tips for planning business tax payments to avoid debt](https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/paying-the-ato/help-with-paying/managing-payments) from the Australian Taxation Office.
