# 13.34 Payroll

## Description

The place to manage anything to do with wages, leave, pensions, health insurance, and other benefits.

## Ops manual

## Examples

If you have staff, the kinds of things you might manage here include:

- timekeeping (e.g. rosters, records of attendance, overtime, project timesheets),
- wages, payslips, and remittance,
- income tax withholding,
- pension payments,
- health insurance,
- paid or unpaid leave of any kind,
- allowances (e.g. for meals, clothing, training),
- any benefits, bonuses, rewards, or incentives in salary packages,
- expense reimbursement.

## Overview

Payroll is serious stuff. Depending on where you are in the world, there are strict governance and compliance obligations to meet. And harsh penalties if you don’t.

No matter how nice your business is, realistically, your staff are primarily here for the money. So payroll must go seamlessly every single cycle.

Therefore, we can’t advise you how to do it.\* It’s beyond our scope. We recommend outsourcing the process to an accountant or bookkeeper who specialises in payroll, and/or using payroll software.

But we do think that payroll lives over here with all the money and numbers. It’s just an expense.

\*Perhaps one day, after community discussion with experienced business owners and accountants/bookkeepers, we can develop an ops manual that covers payroll basics.

## Exceptions

If you receive bills for payroll tax, process them in [[13.51]] and file the records in [[13.62]].

## Also see

Store copies of final payroll records with the individual in [[11.42]] – this is not only good practice, but likely a legal requirement.

## Rationale

## Links

[Guidance on hiring and paying workers](https://www.ato.gov.au/businesses-and-organisations/hiring-and-paying-your-workers) from the Australian Taxation Office.

[An article about managing payroll in small business](https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/small-business/how-to-manage-payroll-for-your-small-business) from NerdWallet.
