# 13.32 Accounts that handle expenses

## Description

The formal statements and paperwork for accounts or platforms that are primarily used to pay expenses.

## Ops manual

## Examples

Online payment processors like PayPal or Payoneer; ‘buy now, pay later’ services like Afterpay or Klarna; digital wallet services like WeChat Pay or Grab; money-transfer services like Western Union; a standard bank account.

## Overview

This is a place for any accounts whose primary function is _spending_ money.

As per the note in [[13.22]], ignore this ID if it’s not relevant to you. We don’t have an account like this, but we wanted to leave room for those that do.

Perhaps your business uses a service like Payoneer to handle payments to international suppliers. Or maybe you buy things via a platform like Afterpay\*. Manage your relationship with those organisations here.

Or maybe you have a bank account that is only for outgoings. Store those formal statements here too.

### What do you mean by ‘formal’ statements and paperwork?

Static documents supplied by a platform or bank (e.g. PDFs). As opposed to raw data that you might download into a spreadsheet and manipulate. Do that kind of work in [[13.31]].

### Saving files

We recommend using the year-month method when saving paperwork and statements so everything sorts neatly. And subfolder by account issuer.

\*Note that if you become an Afterpay merchant one day, you could 'promote' it up to [[13.22]]).

## Exceptions

If you just use a standard bank account for both incomings and outgoings, that goes in [[13.42]].

## Also see

## Rationale

Many businesses won’t need this ID if they just use a regular bank account to handle income and expenses. But we wanted to leave space for other types of ‘one-way’ accounts that send money out. You don’t want to miss anything in case it’s deductible.

## Links
