# 11.31 Internal policies

## Description

How the business will behave towards staff and expectations for staff behaviour.

## Examples

Company values; enterprise or other registered agreements between employers and employees; formal policies that staff will be assessed against during reviews; how you communicate news and updates; dress code and grooming expectations; buddy systems for new staff; culture-related policies on things like working from home, pets or kids in the workplace, or social activities.

## Overview

What sort of workplace do you want to have? This is a place for figuring this out and writing it down.

For instance, official policies for how staff can expect to be treated and should behave. General processes around internal communications or managing a team. Staff-retention strategies to help everyone feel comfortable, get along, and enjoy their work.

If you’re a sole trader, maybe you decide on some internal policies with yourself (why not!). Such as what your working hours are, how often you will check email or other channels, taking regular days off to avoid burn out, or making time for business admin each week. Anything that maintains morale and keeps you motivated.

## Exceptions

## Also see

Be sure to make any formal policies clear to staff before doing [[11.43]].


## Links

[Enterprise agreements and other registered agreements](https://www.fairwork.gov.au/employment-conditions/agreements) from the Australian Government Fair Work Ombudsman.

## Emoji
