# 12.20 ■ Back office equipment & operations ⛔️

## Description

Anything that supports the business behind the scenes (staff only).

## Examples

If you run a beauty salon, your back office might be:

- a room out the back with a desk where you manage the business,
- and a small kitchen area for staff.

If you’re a mobile personal trainer, your back office might be:

- your home office where you manage the business,
- and shelves in your garage for your equipment.

If you’re a freelance writer, your back office might be:

- your home office where you manage the business _and_ do your work.

## Overview

By ‘back office’ we mean the part of your business premises that isn’t customer facing. It may be an actual office with paperclips and a desk. Or it could be some kind of area for staff to prepare meals, have a coffee, and relax on a break.

It’s the beating heart of the business – connecting the building to the outside world and looking after yourself/your staff during the work day. It’s also the equipment and operational stuff that will be common to many businesses. Whereas everyone’s ‘front office’, where you interact with customers, will differ.

As always, there will be grey areas. When Lucy was a freelancer writer, as per the example above, all she had was a back office. She did not see customers at her business premises. But if she had another (fancier) room to hold meetings in, that would have been her front office. Some businesses might be 100% front office. It all depends. ¯\_(ツ)\_/¯

## Exceptions

## Also see


## Links

## Emoji

No entry

NOTES:
Where do we store receipts and warranties, with the thing? Yes.
Starter/endorsed list of things that go here
e.g security > access, security > alarms, encourage discussion and feedback loop
‘How to operate the place that you work at', wherever that is
Equipment, documentation like manuals, service records, ops, maintenance contracts
Apply anything relevant to front office too
