# 14.51 Domain & DNS management

## Description

Anything related to registering domains and DNS management.

## Ops manual

## Examples

## Overview

This is a place to store any notes and documents related to registering domains and DNS management. This also includes things like SSL certificates. These can expire so you need reminders to keep them up to date.

For must of us, this ID might just contain the details of who our domain registrar and DNS provider are. 99% of the time, the domain registrar also handles the DNS.

You might also keep research and shortlists here when you’re searching for a domain name. And if you’re paying a professional to do all this for you, then keep their contact details and what they do here.

# Your domain is very important

Your domain name is very important because you can usually only ‘buy’ them for a year (technically it’s a rental). So people forget to renew them and then whoops, everything’s gone. So put a reminder in your calendar. You can build another website anytime. But if someone else gets your domain name, it’s all over.

## Exceptions

## Also see

Any services you use that are related to registering a domain or DNS management live in [[14.32]].

# Rationale


## Links

Tips on [registering a domain name](https://business.gov.au/online-and-digital/business-website/register-a-domain-name) from the Australian Government.

Tips on [setting up a business website](https://business.gov.au/online-and-digital/business-website/set-up-a-business-website) from the Australian Government.

## Emoji
