# 15.XX Business travel

## Description

A neat template to organise work-related trips.

## Ops manual

## Examples

## Overview

This is a place to organise any sort of (probably) longer-distance, business-related travel that isn’t day-to-day operations.

Things like attending meetings, conferences, and expos, or any event where you represent the business.

Or perhaps you need to travel to complete a project. For instance, a photographer who travels overseas to do a photoshoot. Or a tradesperson who travels interstate to complete a construction contract.

Whether it’s short term or longer, at the bare minimum you need to get there.

You might need to catch a plane to attend a meeting in another city, but just for the day. Store the plane tickets and any expenses here. If you end up having to stay overnight, record your accommodation details too. If the next meeting is overseas, you might also need visas, vaccinations, and other documents.

That’s why we created a work trip template, so everything stays neat and tidy:

- 10 Planning
- 20 Travel documents & visas ← specific to the trip
- 30 Transport
- 40 Accommodation
- 50 Itineraries & schedules
- 60 Expenses to claim

## Exceptions

This is not for daily vehicle running expenses or deductions, those go in [[12.43]].

## Also see

# Rationale


## Links

## Emoji

NOTES:
tbc, is this here?
I kept business travel with product
It was related to a job, I had a ‘travel and expenses’ folder in the job folder
But I could easily have have kept it here
Labelling each trip with a job code/date/description
Why travel for business?
As part of doing a job for someone else (like me or Coruscade)
As part of doing your job (a travelling ‘salesman’)
For education and conferences or other learning
Like a GP, or when Tertia and Ken go to South Africa for farm visits
Or the Whalans did vineyard visits in Italy
To promote yourself at a convention or trade show
Like the breeders or equipment suppliers that sponsor the Royal Poultry Show
What is business travel?
Travel organised by you or someone else that is likely deductible
So your accountant wants to know
Or where you incur expenses that will be reimbursed by a client/customer
What about other stuff that was in LA like loyalty programs
Going away checklists, important documents and lists?
Extend the template?
